 

_Ex. William Randolgn Haarat, ' ' ' ' .:
-Riveraida Driva, ‘ ~ \ ’
39% York City, W. Y.

/

E3¢K m3. He rat: - ‘ . ' ~

V Thanh yuu?0r tha talegram of tha 18th oh reoeigt
of tha raviaaa 91am of Hausa 'G‘. I am daﬁAarutﬁly-ﬁt Work

gﬁtbing gut tha raviﬁai wwrking ﬁling far niu368.'38 and '0‘.

x As talggmghed tenight, I am langthantng the View
bed rooma in Hausa ‘3' anﬁ h&va at 135% an'elevattun which
aaama ta ea aatisfastory, giving the enelaaed flomr; The
amm?l iisconnactaﬁ baloonya éeam macaaaarily so %n orﬁar to
maﬁa the stairway dark Gut affaottvaly in elevation,

V ‘ There has bean a gra&t daal w? difficulty fiti
theifomndaziona 66 Huuaa‘*ﬁ'. The roota of tha.ﬂa11farnia
cherry and other growths hava a0 aatan into and dieintegrmted
ﬁha;rook'that tha slighteat tatn aaugas it to shaveioff_juat
as it did on th@ ruad‘ Twice ﬁr. ﬁaahhurn &a$ thqukht_he 7
hadgarrivad at a gmod fﬁundutimn onxy £0 have'the xeck saala
Offiagain. ‘_Thia hag been sextouéﬂbnly that it haw taken
timQ. It has been far meta easy ﬁn 59$ carpentarw than
laerars to go down from the city and all thaVavaitablag
100$} laborara have haan used from thw geginning.

 

; A3 to float tile; anclaaed in a design in ahﬁpe
.‘capiad from a ganal in oatalagueéxoTha firm making the autgide ~
flﬁor tile is willing to wake thaae in aoft tbnaa of red'but gy
with considarable 0010: variation. .1 have seen flaora af: . ~
sthis gatsarn in tha Sgﬁniah ?yrannaa wﬁiah ware Vary lovely‘

,r In Raaxranging Hawaa “C” it wan not peaaible to
ggﬁat a 300d r00f<1139 and at tha ﬁamﬁ Elma covar tha 11tt13;*
'gcgurtgyorah with the main reef. It nan he covarad with a_’
:flat 1001, eﬁgad With tile, or left an_Open pargala. I ’ a
.‘swéhuld 11kt! to 1%“ it the; lattim until you am; it) 33.3316 3
,5flat reef oaould be put on just tha aame., It will magegtna
{cm-Art 301133 1"}“33‘31‘: “ma 3-130 Siva three diﬁi‘framnt mutt ﬁrmw-
Er *' * Rave tug columna-for the sourtavbaen ahigped y§t?.
I hava b$3ﬁ ﬂuahinﬁ tha m0&alinf $0 get a3 many would? a3
‘ Qaaﬁibla r¢ﬁdy *0 3h19~0n tha ataamar ﬁhat leavaa hegk the
369k,~ a bird in the buah5~ as tha‘naxt chance to ahip 13 as
yeﬁ\vary uncert%1n%gi'am asking ﬁr. Einntt to uss ali aaans

. ‘ 3 ' 2x

9: .- 57'

£2 - V

,; .2
4'; . . -
9:  .
4 I.»
r=v
1.1' ‘ 4.

,1; 
'~ V ' -,'

-;.'~.,

 

to get it for us around the middle of April. The materials will be shipped up raw, also the mounds, and all casting will be done up there.  It was only the possible chance of "arriving" with it.

Yours very truly,

Enc.
March 19, 1920

Mr. William Randolph Hearst,
Riverside Drive,
New York  City, N. Y.

Dear Mr. Hearst :

Thank you for the telegram of the 18th on receipt of the revised plan of House "C".  I am desperately at work getting out the revised working plans for Houses "B" and "C".

As telegraphed tonight, I am lengthening the view bed rooms in House "B" and have at last an elevation which seems to be satisfactory, giving the enclosed floor.  The small disconnected balconys seem necessarily so in order to make the stairway work out effectively in elevation.

There has been a great deal of difficulty with the foundations of House "A".  The roots of the California cherry and other growths have so eaten into and disintegrated the rock that the slightest tain causes it to shave off just as it did on the road.  Twice Mr. Washburn has thought he had arrived at a good foundation only to have the rock scale off again.  This has been serious, only that it has taken time.  It has been far more easy to get carpenters than laborers to go down from the city and all the available local laborers have been used from the geginning.

As to floor tile; enclosed is a design in shape copied from a panel in catalogue A. The firm making the outside floor tile is wiling to make these in soft tones of red but with considerable color variation. I have seen floors of this pattern in the Spanish Pyrennes which are very lovely.

In rearranging House "C" it was not possible to get a good roof line and at the same time cover the little court porch with the main roof.  It can be covered with a flat roof, edged with tile, or left an open pergola.  I would like to leave it the latter until you see it, as the flat roof could be put on just the same. It will make the court some longer, and also give three different court treatments.

Have the columns for the courts been shipped yet?  I have been pushing the modeling to get as many moulds as possible ready to ship on the steamer that leaves here the 26th, - a bird in the bush,- as the next chance to ship is as yet very uncertain.  I am asking Mr. Minott to use all means 
