(Letterhead: New York American)

December 30, 1919.

Dear Miss Morgan:

I am sending you a few more pictures. The patio from Avila might be used in its upper story for the lower loggia that I suggest for my little cottage.  So might the upper story of the patio from Bergos which, by the way, I own but cannot get out of Spain.

On page 263 of Byne-Stapley-- Spanish Architecture which I sent you there is a very beautiful and elaborate patio. These columns and capitols and arches are the most attractive that I have seen.  I do not know to what extent they would be available on the big building or the little ones; but they are certainly very beautiful.  There is detail to be found on page 261.

Other interesting items in this book are the newel posts on pate 23; and an interesting capitol on page 58; and some interesting little brackets or supports in the form of Cupids at the bottom of the plate on page 138; another newel on page 144; some corbels on page 149; the Casa de las Muertes on pages 150-151.

This Casa de las Muertes is better seen in C. Unde-- Baudenmaler in Espanien and Portugal.

On pages 162-163 the upper cloister Colegio de los Irlandeses is interesting.

On page 203 there is a good cornice and on page 354 and 360 there are others.  On page 365 is an interesting balcony treatment.  Do you think we could use it?  Page 382 has the window frame of which I sent you other pictures.

I am enclosing also a Stanford White room from the residence of Payn Whitney.  I think I have one door frame similar to the one shown in this room, and I am hoping to buy another one somewhat similar, which came out of Mrs. Lydig's house, which Stanford White also did.

The ceilings I cannot get, so we will have to copy some of these that we get glimpses of in these pictures.  One advantage of the scheme in this Payn Whitney picture is the height of the woodwork paneling around the wall.  As I have not a great deal of velvet and do not know whether I can get much more, we might use some such scheme in my sitting room or in the big assembly room of the large house.

Please be careful of these pictures.  I could never get them again; and please let me have them back when you are through with them.
2. 

I can buy three large important window grills and also a tremendous big door grill-- the door about ten feet high, the windows about six feet.  Can we use them?  They are genuine-- just arrived here from Spain-- taken off an old palace there.

The door would be too big for the small cottages, but would be fine for the big central house.

The window frames could be used on the small cottages but  think would be more effectively used in connection with the door.

Sincerely,
s/ WR Hearst
