January 5, 1922

Dear Miss Morgan :

I do not believe from what I hear from Rome
in relation to the two fountains that they would be any cheaper
made in Rome than they would be made in California, when you
consider the packing, the shipping, the duty, insurance, and
everything.

At any rate, the difference in favor of the Rome
fountains would be not enough to warrant the additional risk
and the possible delay through breakage.

I suggest, therefore, that you go ahead and have
these fountains made in California and that we begin on them
immediately so that they may be ready and erected as soon as,
possible.

2-- I telegraphed you about the design for the wall and
seat below B which you sent me. The one with the steps
might be the best one but you merely indicated steps without
giving me an idea of where they were going to. I assumed
that they were going down to the road and that the wall sup-
porting the seat would also go down as far as the road, making
some sort of a feature there similar to the one on the other
side of B.

Perhaps this was not your intention. Perhaps these
steps only came down from the higher level. Will you kindly
let me know a little more definitely what it is proposed to do
with the steps. Then I can give you a better opinion on the
matter.

3-- I was delighted to learn that no great damage was done
by the storm. Of course it is too bad that the oak is down, and
I suppose we must eventually transplant a pretty good size
one some place near where the old oak stood.

But I think it might be well to wait until we have
the big central house up and then plant the oak in the place
where it will do the most good.

If those tree surgeons would not spend quite so much
tine on each tree, they might get the cake in condition to resist
another big storm, which may come along any year.

I think, too, in view.of these storms that the idea
of putting the cement in the main trunks and the tamped cork and
asphaltum in the u er limbs of the trees will shown to be a
good one. I believe the outstanding limbs would be broken down.

 

Miss Julia Morgan -- 2. 1-5-22
by the mere weight of the cement added to the force of the wind.
I expect to be in California the latter part of this month. I hope the planting is progressing.
Sincerely yours,

[handwritten][
W R Hearst
W