September 15, 1923.

MR. William Randolph Hearst,
137 Riverside Drive,
New York, New York.

Dear Hr. Hearst:

Mr. Gillespie mentioned lest week that you
wanted the new posts for the fence to be 8" x 8"
as those we used last season were not strong enough
-- and incidentally mentioned that he had told you
the poorer posts should have been rejected before
shipment.

For information regarding the posts I en-
close the following data --

When it came to actually making the purchase of
the red wood posts or "stakes" the following condi-
tions were discovered -

1. That there was not enough redwood, of any grade,
6"x 6"x 10' in all the lumber yards around the bay
combined to fill the order.

2. That for an assured life of probably fifteen
years or more it would be necessary to buy "butt
cutts", which would cost fifty percent more than
merchantable grade, if obtainable, but which could
not be secured in sufficient quantity even from the
northern mills.

3. That the next beet grade was "extra merchantable"
which would cost from $800 to $1000 here then “merchantable" and deliveries would have to be made per-
iodically from the northern mills.

4. That the merchantable grade could be furnished
a small part from stock and the balance from mill
shipments, by the Charles Nelson Lumber Company and
the Acme Lumber Company. After getting bids from
both and looking at bothe stocks and making special
agreements to grading, it seemed that the Acme
Lumber Company would furnish much the better stock.Mr. Hearst,
September 15, 1923.
A conference was then secured with the General Purchasing Agent and the Assistant General Purchasing Agent of the Southern Pacific Company, the largest users of redwood ties, posts and poles in the country, who spent about an hour discussing all phases of the matter. They unhesitatingly recommend-ed the purchase from the Acme Lumber Company, of the merchantable grade. While this grade is made up of 75% No.1 and 25% No. 2, it seemed that the replace-ments after a few years would be more than covered by the saving over the next grade - the "extra mer-chantable".
Most of the shipments were inspected at the dock, but an agreement was made with the shippers that any found defective on arrival would be replaced. On December 9th, 1922 we received a credit memorandum from the Acme Lumber Company to cover all posts found defective on the cursory inspection possible at the wharf, and the lumber company (our order file #577) forwarded in addition at their expense fifty extra posts to replace them showing defects on stacking at San Simeon. I did not think to tell Mr. Gillespie not to use the rejected posts except in temporary fencing.
Yours very truly,
JM-deM