October 9, 1928.

Dear Mr. Hearst:

This is the status of work on the Hill --

1.	Very solid rock encountered in a portion of the extension of the Tennis Court 
Building has slowed up the excavating work, so that the shovel is still in the hole, 
as reported to you by telephone yesterday.  Everything is ready, however, so that the 
walls and slab can be placed in the quickest possible time.  The area thereabouts looks 
like a great dump, due to the piles of sand, gravel, lumber, et cetera collected.  The
 forms for the larger section of the indoor pool are in place, reinforcing steel in 
 place, but the concrete is to wait until the courts are poured.

2.	The Hill top garden paths and beds have nearly all had to be shifted more or less 
to accommodate themselves to the new big plaza.  This work is nearly completed.  I 
believe the new plaza is a success and hope you will agree.  It is in good proportion 
with the main facade.  The gardening space about it is a little thin but the planting 
can be made skillful enough in time to make up for the narrowness particularly at the 
two sides.  There is a lot of pavement and balustrading done.

3.	The changes you asked are made in the Neptune pavilion, - the partition put in 
dividing the dressing rooms into two sets and the location of exterior doors changed 
to axis of stairways.

4.	In the Neptune pool area the minor stair toward "B" is all poured, also the various
 garden walls out to approximately the same distance, but so recently the place is still 
 torn up and unplanted.  The balancing stair toward "C" terrace is ready to pour now, 
 but material is all going to the tennis area for the time being.  They will probably 
 be poured by the 20th.  The walls below "C" are lowered as agreed, and the ground at 
 the new base is leveled off.

5.	Shall we go ahead on the circular stairways from the Neptune pool terrace down to 
the road and try to get the concrete in before stopping off, or shall we clean up this 
area before you come -- and leave this work until Spring?
6.	There are a few Italians working on the old Temple frieze.  I cannot always get the 
right men and thought it a good scheme to work them for a bit while the weather is good.

7.	The elevator machinery is all installed and operating, and the carpenters are putting
 the woodwork of the cab in. You will be able to step in, press the Gothic Suite button, 
 and not be surprised to find moved up there quite a good many of your fine things -- 
 its really scrumptious up there.

8.	The library guards are on.  The books are not, - but will be, - back in place.

	There is a great deal of gardening and planting to do between the level of the 
	Neptune pavilion walk down to the road and from House "B" to the end of House "C" 
	lower terrace.  Will try to have this area neat, but it is evident that a couple 
	of months will be needed to get it all in final shape.

	The men have never worked harder, or with better spirit -- so what is undone is so 
	because it was more than could be done in the time.  I used to be amazed in laying 
	out seating plans to find how rapidly the seatings increased with the increase in 
	diameter.  It is like that on the Hill, as we go out from the center, the work to 
	produce any effect increases amazingly.

	I did not think you would regret Mr. Macklen's departure -- only it was at a hard 
	time to be left without a directive garden head.

Yours very truly,
