[pro]blems, and the affect of his leadership on the hill was evident in a week.  A couple of weeks more should show clearly whether he is the man wanted or not, -- in any case, the immediate situation is well taken care of.

The excavations of the Main Building are almost to the point of starting the forms.  There are about 3000 cubic feet of concrete to be poured -- and about 50 yards can be poured a day during pouring periods.

Mr. Humrich arrived while I was there Sunday.  Vander Loo is working on the "Hero" ceiling and the last odds and ends of exterior work such as the corbels of the seat of the lower A landing, and the last chimney caps.

The lobby columns still trouble me.  The shafts of the four columns are lovely in color but the caps are all out of character.  They are not set up.  Would you consider using the shafts with gilded (composition) caps?  The lobby is so nearly fine, would you consider it?  Not having them up is  not keeping back the work as they can e slipped into their places.

Yours very truly,

JM-deM
August 3, 1922

Mr. William Randolph Heart
137 Riverside Drive,
New York, N.Y.

Dear Mr. Hearst:

You said one day jokingly that you did not object to hearing of troubles after they were over and solved--so have kept those of this summer until that point.

You have probably inferred that Mr. Kincaid has not been able to handle the work on the hill. -- This not from lack of willingness to cooperate or lack on my part of following your instructions to give him a free hand and full charge -- but because Mr. Kincaid is not fit physically to stand the work and when nervous, breaks down.  -- Also because he cannot realize that the work requires constant attention and forethought and quick decisions, and that absence of a week - ten days - five weeks - without leaving any instructions can only result in demoralizing the work to an extent that no small economies put into effect can possibly offset.

Things being thusly, I sent up an engineer to take charge of the work and will keep him there until you can judge personally of the experiment. He is a valued member of our office force, and it will not be easy to replace him in the office should you want him to stay,, but it looks as though it would solve the San Simeon problem.  This Mr. Rossi originated in San Francisco of good Italian parentage, had structural engineering training, and went to Mexico city in charge of construction of the Mexico City Opera House -- Later having charge of construction at the Peruvian properties you are interested in.  He is used to meeting all kinds of labor pro[blems]
