[Letter]
(Letterhead: New York American)

February 12, 1921.

Dear Miss Morgan:

I telegraphed you about the flower schemes.  They seem to me very good as far as I can recognize the flowers in their Latin names.

There are only one or two things that I did not like. One was the ivy and the other was the wistaria.  I think we should have in addition to the various things enumerated a lot of fine roses.  Mrs. Hearst and I are both very fond of roses.

I should like also a considerable number of climbing roses either over the front walls of the houses-- those walls facing the central plaza-- or in the courts; perhaps on lattices in the courts would be the best place and would not interfere with the architectural effect.  The roses would clothe the courts in a very pretty way, I think.

If you should not like this plan, however, roses could still be used on the bathroom towers of the various buildings.  But my personal preferences are for the courts, and I think that other things like honeysuckle, jasmine, passion-flowers, and such can be run up over the bathroom towers.

The place I want the bourgandeliers, after due consideration, is the south walls of house A.  These are sunny and protected spaces and they need large masses of color, as these terrace walls are high and bare.

There ought also to be some potted palms or plants that would go well with the bourgandeliers on the various terraces.  I am anxious to make the terrace side of House A, which is the side seen from the Bay, and from the road very largely coming up, extremely effective in color, and I think we should use flowers and colored jars freely to accomplish this.

You speak of some seasonal planting, and I think we should have this along the borders of the beds in front of the houses.  I largely favor the old-fashioned flowers of English garden flowers.

The court of House B ought to be particularly well protected and sunny and offer opportunities for raising the more delicate plants.  I suggested some of those flowering French cacti.  They have a beautiful flower like a tassels, and I think they are in red and yellow and perhaps in white.

I saw them at the flower shows in Paris and I have also seen them in California, although it may not be very easy to find them.  They are  a sort of climbing variety of cactus, and can be carried 
up along the sunny wall.

The court of house C would be the architectural place for this kind of thing, but I doubt if it is as well protected.

We can get some vivid Spanish coloring also in the court of C.

The gardens below C are fine with the cypress and should be carried out in the Spanish or Italian style.

I also suggested planting in other parts of the grounds, but within the outside retaining walls, flowering trees, such as magnolia and flowering eucalyptus, and a beautiful blue-flowering tree which I see in Santa Barbara but which I do not know the name of.  There are probably other flowering trees available.

Large bushes like oleanders, which come I think in pink and also in white, are very effective.  The prettiest thing at the Hacienda is the pink oleander outside my mother's window.

The rhododendrons will be fine wherever they can be planted in shady places; and the smaller azaleas are also nice.

I would like one place in the garden where we can use hollyhocks effectively.

In addition to the various marbles that I am sending out, there is a bronze figure of the setting sun, a large one, nearly life-size, at Gump's.  I think this would be good in the middle of the central pool on the west side of house C, the pool that the steps enclose.  It would be rather appropriate if it would be effective architecturally.

It would have to face the house, but that would not much matter as below this again at the edge of the retaining wall we would have opportunity for another figure, or big jar, or something which would be the thing most seen from the road.

There is another very pretty thing that was at the exhibition, a marble of a nymph with the head of Orpheus.  I do not know whether there is one of those in San Francisco, but if there is we might use it in the grounds somewhere.

I am a little disturbed that the interior decorating is getting on so slowly.  It seems to me that those people of Humerich's cannot be doing any real work, but are loafing on the job, and I do not think that we should let them do it.

I think house A ought to be more promptly finished than house B, so that we can speedily get into these two houses.  This will allow you to put the towers on house C and to put fireplaces in there and it will also allow me some time to consider the details of decoration in that house, as the problem there is a little more difficult.

What do you think of the idea of making the central plaza a front yard for the big main building, planting and transplanting some trees there so as to arrange the composition artistically, making along or a round pool in the middle of it, and perhaps putting the Galatea statue at one end of the pool, and otherwise decorating that central 
spot so as to make it beautiful in a more or less formal way, and in harmony with the rest of the hill-top?

I am waiting with much interest the models and sketches which you are preparing.

In regard to the percentage that you should charge on this work at San Simeon, will you kindly fix a percentage which will give you a satisfactory profit?  You know what percentage that will be better than I do and I am entirely satisfied to abide by your own judgement in the matter.

Sincerely,
s/ W R Hearst

P-S   Here are some moving picture sets that we used in a Spanish picture called THE WORLD AND HIS WIFE.  I do not know that there is any idea in them but there might be something for the main building although our architecture is rather different in period.  Enclosed also are some clippings that will interest you.

