February 12, 1923

Mr. William Randolph Hearst,
137 Riverside Drive
New York, New York.

Dear Mr. Hearst:

Certain plants do very well indeed on the Hill and I mention a few as suggestion for use in the bank plantings as helping the tropical effect.  One is the dwarf palm like along House C circular steps.  It hugs the ground, so is not broken by the wind, covers ground area as its new growth branches out at the ground, and  can be planted in a pocket of good soil without digging out a whole acre first.  It stays low and broadens.  The six to ten foot Phoenix palms (with compact tops ) do very well.  All the hardy palms.

Then the various Yuccas planted in with other greener planting do not give any suggestion of desert and thrive.  More varieties could be had for the road banks,a nd the long flowering stalks are most decorative.  You may have notices some of them indicated in the roadside planting.

The blue cedars seem to like us better than any of the other "specimen" trees.  All conifers ought to do well - Fir Spruce Cedar Pine of various kinds marked.

the veronius, imperial purple and blue, thrive excessively.  They could be used for color in  mass effects with yuccas, etc.  to give interest - as they are not particularly interesting plants in themselves.s  

The bushy genista (brooms) and acacias thrive.  the "Red hot poker " also thrives.  The "berry" plants like the crataegus and barberry seem to have a tendency to grow very stalky -- not making good foliage, but good berries).  The toyons, manzenitas, etc. can only transplant when small and grow slowly.

All the bougainvilleas are breading into leaf under their winter covering, but will probably need to be covered each winter on account of the suddenness of the cold spells and wind storms.  All the pretty lantanas, ivy geraniums, pelargoniums, etc. are cut down with one real frost and will need renewal and care each year.

For road planting, it might be a good plan instead of 
putting in a whole bank at a time, to, for instance this year, get all the yucca available (not many at that ) and plant them here and there as they appear in the roadside "pictures" -- they would have all the water and soil food available - to start on - then in the fall add other plants -- spring others, etc., gradually building up the fertility of the banks as well as the planting.  It would be a comparatively inexpensive way and would begin to produce an effect at once.

The pomegranates like water.  Those along the little inlets of the Venetian lagoons have their fruit laden branches borne down by sheer richness into the blue waters -- thrilling in color.  Our California product is mostly bushy, but I have in mind 8 - 10- 15 foot trees in old gardens at Petaluma, Clusa, etc., that I think could be secures.

Yours very truly,

JM-deM

