January 22, 1924

Dear Miss Morgan:

I think you have made the most out of the little apartment in the basement of HOUSE A; indeed, I think the little circular stair into the bathroom is a very pleasant idea -- as they say in the antique business, "very amusing."

The big front door is a problem and I suppose we will have to abandon it as it is clumsy and shuts out the light.  But do entirely as you like about this.  You may have some idea for using it.

The ceilings are all good -- perhaps 614 is the best; but I am not all sure about that -- from the drawings.  The lobby ceiling of Casa Pinelos might be very attractive especially as the beams are very attractive, and as the little frieze between the beams is interesting.

I do not know that we have much space for a frieze, but if we have the space I would use it, as I like the design and the escutcheons.  In fact, if we can use the frieze and the beams I would greatly prefer 613, -- that is, a modification of it after the Pinelos ceiling, as stated.

What appears to be the marbling in 612 does not appeal me so much and I think the shape of the chambers better in 614, and also they are smaller and perhaps more suited to the room.

In the little gable end, however, they are larger, which may be a disadvantage.  I think i will leave the matter very much in your hands.

-------

2. I would like to talk further about HOUSE B>  The arrangements in HOUSE C was so entirely successful that I think e ought to come as near it as possible in HOUSE B, and ought to make a little effort in order to get the same kind of a sitting room.

In other words, I think the difficulties in HOUSE B can be made to give some interest to the scheme, and if we start in with a lateral lobby with large paneling on each side to let in a lot of light, and the entrance in the middle also letting in a lot of light, then go to an interesting stair going up to the next level, on which level there is a sitting room about the size and character of the one in HOUSE C< with pillars in the middle, I think we have an entertaining scheme.

And we can make arches looking down from the sitting room into the lobby, if we please.  This would let in light and give an interesting feature.  Will you please se what can be drawn out along these lines?  The bedroom outlook from HOUSE C would also be pretty and the windows would be large enough to frame in a very attractive vista.

Sincerely,
s/WR Hearst

