Office of William Randolph Hearst, La Cuesta Encantada, San Simeon, California

Nov. 1, 1934.

Dear Miss Morgan:

Mr. Hearst has instructed me to take care of the details of your trip abroad,  If 
there are any that I have not mentioned to you, please let me know.

Mr. Lindner of the Examiner, and Mr. Mayer the business manager there, being on the 
ground are assisting me.

Mr. Mayer informs me that you intend to return on the same steamship line; so I told 
him to get round trip ticket as you had intended doing yourself.

But in view of Mr. Hearst's letter to you, suggesting that you return by way of 
Southampton, I am not sure that it is desirable to get round trip ticket.

If you approve, it might be better to get ticket one way from San Francisco to 
Naples; then when you are turning, Miss Head in London will take care of your return 
ticket and reservation whenever you decide to come back and on whatever boat and 
date you prefer.  You can let her know in sufficient time to get best reservation 
possible.  Her address is NATIONAL MAGAZINE CO. (A M Head) 153 Queen Victoria street, 
London, E. C. 4.

In this way you can come back by way of New York, taking the trip from there around 
through the Canal or by rail or plane, as you elect.

And while in New York, Mr. Hearst says you might like to visit the warehouse at 387 
Southern Boulevard, and select any furniture you desire sent out here.  Mr. McGregor 
will be at your service.

In fact, I am notifying Mr. McGregor that, if you stop in New York on your way back, 
he may expect you to call there and make these selections; also he has been 
instructed to get you whatever reservation and transportation you desire from New 
York to the Coast.  If you will be good enough to wire him care NY American on your 
return when you will arrive, he will also take care of you at steamship pier, etc.  
To return to Mr. Lindner-Mr Mayer, they will also cooperate with you and take care 
of vises for passport, also triptyches and whatever other papers are required from 
the Automobile Club to facili- your trip over the borders and through the countries 
you are visiting.

Miss Head will have competent chauffeur at Naples to meet you and take car off boat 
and be at your service.

Please let me know if there is anything else you can think of and I will be happy to 
attend to it.

Sincerely yours, 

s/ J Willicombe

P-S Don't forget to let me know what you decide about round trip or one way ticket.
Dr Ruddy
Mrs [Morse]
[Seymour]

For Avery
Box of colored pencils
accordion letter file
library paste
Christmas paper - letter paper