(Letterhead: the back side of The Ambassador, Los Angeles note paper)
June 2, 1926

Miss Julia Morgan 
Merchants Exchange Building
San Francisco.

I think Eucalyptus trees along road are being planted too close together.  How far shall we plant Eucalyptus where Crepe Myrtle where Jacaranda.  I advise Jacaranda along south road from 
new gate up to junction of roads at Chinese Hill if this is the most protected place.  Jacaranda need southern exposure with lots of warmth.  We could plant Eucalyptus from junction up to house or we could reverse this if latter location more protected. We could plant Crepe Myrtle from new gate along north road
to junction and Eucalyptus from junction to house thus completely surrounding Chinese hill with Eucalyptus.  The Eucalyptus blooms longer than the others and therefore I think best to have at near house.

2.  The gardner has allowed the lantana to be almost completely obliterated by the ivy geranium 
in the plaza along the esplanade.  Consequently the color scheme is destroyed.  Can you please get him to maintain that color scheme?  Furthermore I asked him to thin out the Heliotrope on B house and he has removed it entirely.  He makes me cry!  I loved that wonderful Heliotrope and it was as much a feature of B as the Bouganvilla is of C.  Can we
get the Heliotrope Back?  All of those wild movie people prevented me from talking to you as much as I wanted to.  Next time I shall go up along and we can discuss everything.  Nevertheless the movie folk were immensely appreciative.  They said it was the most wonderful place in the world and that the most extravagant dream of a moving 
picture set free far short of this reality.  

They all wanted to make a picture there but they are NOT going to be allowed to do it.  

By the way did you find any statuary from the Exhibition groups which would be available for fountains at the pool and below. I would like to go over those pictures again with you. 
Mr. Rossi thinks we can put a gasoline heater for the pool in the same room with the filter.  That might be good.  If not we can put it right across the road.

Sincerely,

s/ WR Hearst

P.S. I started this as a telegram but it is too long so I am making it a note.  s/ WRH
