San Simeon
Sept. 11, 1923

Miss Julia Morgan,
Merchants exchange Building,
San Francisco, Calif.

I inspected the water supply here as we spoke of in your office.  To begin with the pipe at the concrete sump in the creek bottom on Pine Mt. which is 4" diameter for a short distance reducing to 3", does not carry off all the water.  The sump itself appears to be receiving all the water from the creek which comes from the adjoining property (unless some runs in the gravel below the surface ).  Into this sump is discharged a 3" wood pipe line from a very good spring coming from below a large granite rook directly into a sump about 2 feet square.  On this wood pipe line there is a loss due to holes etc.  In the pipe, but being that the sump which it discharges into overflows at present there is no need of doing anything with that line, but would suggest that when 3" pipe is taken from present main line it be used to replace this wood pipe line.

I do not believe present line from main sump is delivering the full volume of the pipe, due to air pockets at which points of the line.  On the main high point there is a vent which is a common globe valve on the end of  a length of pipe 20 feet up in the air.  I got a ladder and climbed up, opened the valve and considerable air was lodged there.  At a point nearby there a tap is taken to supply a trough for cattle.  If that trough was taken from the high point it would automatically take care of the air lock.  This could probably be done.  There are also 2 or 3 small springs which supply troughs direct, but so little that if many cattle come at one time the trough becomes empty.  These springs could be run into a wood tank set anywhere and then by regular ball-cock supply to trough.  This would also take care of overflow and waste at trough at times.  The pipe sizes as you know should be increased.  At present the supply coming into the main reservoir is just about what is required for the grounds and very little overflows into the compartment for the power plant.  If the discharge from the compartment for the grounds could deliver all the water wanted I am sure there would be non left for power compartment, which receives its water from the House compartment overflow.

The amount of overflow at present from the sump at the source of pipe line in Pine Mt. would about fill a 3" pipe, as that is the way I measured it, - a short piece of 3" pipe running level nearly full bore gave little pressure.

(Signed) James Rankin

[Handwritten notes]

Very important to get sumps pipes and so forth large enough - even too big (?)

Think engineers should make definite recommendations then will ask Mr. Lee to execute a definite plan.  Kindly get engineers detailed report.

Note:Mr Raine will put in a longer sump and can follow the pipe suggestions made here if you approve.

Note:This is Mr.Lee's domain.

