I have these pages all mixed up can't have numbered the in their proper sequence This is page 1.
Dear Miss Morgan
Regarding the two new little houses and [E?]; I think we should make these rather more luxurious than A B and C.
I wouldn't have any small rooms like the court rooms in A B and C. I would have all the [red?] rooms as large as my bed room and some of them even larger. The parlors should be big because they serve many bed rooms.Page 2.
They should have big fine fireplaces around which a number of people could collect The lobbies and [illegible] must be as effective as possible. In fact we should improve on anything we have yet done.
It is important to make these new houses interesting too. We must give thought to [vistas?] through windows and portals [also?] to splendid terraces and fine stairs and flight of steps. Thee should be view [towers?] and bedrooms for the top floors and interesting alluring little paths and plots in front of the lowest floors Then we must have decorativePage 3.
features like wells and fountains and [illegible] and marble seats and potted trees etcetera etcetera so that nobody will want to live in the old houses but everybody will want the wonderful new houses.
You see we began the old houses simply and then elaborated them after they were built. If we start out to make the new houses fine we can do it so much better that there will be [illegible] comparison.
I think you have made the bath rooms spacious and the closets as well. They should surely be big enough and should Page 4 God knows how I got them this way.
have all the equipment essential to comfort. In [fort?] they should be dressing rooms and wardrobes
A little extension of the area of the houses will give us the room we want and I advise that we extend them west as well as east as I am not at all afraid of extending them past the corner of the esplanade 2. I am going East in about a week. I shall probablyPage 5 Now I'm beginning to get orderly again.
be gone about two months
In that time we can finish the pool and the surroundings of temple court. I doubt the wisdom of putting any green marble in the pool. I think it should all be the white marble used in the smaller pool with only a [bond?] of green at and above the water line and a band on the path around the edge. We can put green and gold mosaic around thePage 6
bottom as we planned [as?] but I think the coloring in the water makes it safer and better to make the greater part of the bottom and sides of the pool white.
3. I think Mr. Maybecks latest plan of the memorial is fine. Let him go ahead and develop that. I think the piers are in the right place as he has them. All we need is a third gallery which should be made the best and most comfortable place in the house so people will want to go up there.
Can we put [elevators?] in the piers
4. I will see you in Los Angeles this week I suppose
Sincerely W R Hearst