(Letterhead: C.C. Rossi, Supt., Hearst Camp, San Simeon, San Luis Obispo Co., Calif.)

February 17, 1927.

Dear Mr. Rossi:

After polling the guests carefully, I find from Mr. and Mrs. Swinnerton that the south front room of C is about as bad as the six front rooms of A.

I wish you would do the same things with C that you are going to do with A - namely make the window frames twice as heavy, use heavier plate glass, seal windows, unnecessary for ventilation, make the doors opening on the balcony extra heavy teak, put in sills and dovetail weather strips &c &c.  Take absolutely all the precaution you are about to take for A.  The little court rooms of C should have the windows sealed in each side, putting in solid plate glass, but the East window should be left open for ventilation.

Please make the tower rooms, water, air and sound proof also. Lets make these two houses on all three floors absolutely cosy and comfortable.  Dont omit anything that you can think of and dont do anything halfway. Do it all as thoroughly as possible.  I dont want to have to do this over this time.

I find further that the cloister rooms are cold and wet.  The fireplaces we are correcting but we must put electric heaters in all these rooms also.

Furtermore we must put double doors and double windows on the south side anyhow and we must put in the sills and the weather stripping and "all the comforts of home"  Lets go over those rooms today and also over the Doges Suite.  I think we can improve these rooms also.  I am going to make these houses fit to live in if I have to rebuild them.

W.R.H.

If Miss Morgan can come down Sunday, I will wait over.

W.R.H.

The bathroom windows are things to be considered too. One of mine moans pitifully.  Others in other houses leak or indulge in cyclone effects.  A little dovetail weather stripping and some heavier windows would be good in the bathrooms.

Please put heavier doors and weather stripping on doors on East and West of A at first floor below.  Also seal up two side doors of lobby and weather strip center door, also put sills and strips on bed room doors, in all of them, even those into the closets.  Kindly close up the windows in the closets.

W.R.H.

