[1923] Feb 2

Dear Miss Morgan:

As I telegraphed you I am highly delighted with he color sketches and general plans of the road approaches from San Simeon to the hill top.  If we can get vistas like those indicated in the sketches it will be wonderful.

In the general planting, inside the hill wall and around the house sides in the neighborhood I think we should keep fairly close to our previous plans.  I have a general conception of Chinese hill as bearing fruits and flowers and trees of an oriental or at least semi tropical character.  I should like to see somewhat similar planting around the Moorish baths.  I have written previously about these hills and the garage hill etcetera.  Reservoir hill seems to follow requirements in the sketches and to promise a very effective appearance.  I am not sure that Chinese hill and the other spots are not planned as suggested.  I have no details of them.  The general effect seems good. 

Inside the wall I surely want the temple
not so much under the bay tree as against it.  It is a pretty big temple.  In front of the temple I think we should have a fine big pool to reflect it.  Around this pool I think we should have our night garden and in the pool some night blooming water lilies.  At the further end of the pool from the temple I think we should have that beautiful basin supported on a columnar base with he marble nymph above it that I have ordered abroad.  Then on the wings of this space to the right and left of the pool I think we should have our roses.

I am not averse to the plain trees, clipped if you think they would be better than the pigola but somewhere I would like a pergola or an arbor with grapes (?) over it etcetera.  Perhaps we can find another place for that.  the plane trees would be for that.  The plane trees would be an interesting formal finish and the walk along the wall is a useful and agreeable construction. 

I like the idea of the slope in clipped shrubs with roses interspersed (liberally).  I think too the palms should remain and the other trees come out as marked.
That arrangement gives us a better chance for our pool in the middle and rose gardens on the wings.

In planting our citrus fruits we have got to consider the feeling, the predilections of there (?) plans as well as our own preferences.  They must go where they will consent to grow - if there is any such place.  I don't want them to cut of the view of the wall but I would like to have some where they can be seen from the houses as they are beautiful evergreens.  Also as said above I would like some in our oriental courts and gardens.  Perhaps some would also be well as indicated on the slopes East of house B.

Is that a warm and protected spot.  Of course we will be out this Summer and I am going to try t get out this Spring.  I think there are a lot of the above ideas that you can go right ahead with.

When shall we begin building again.  I suppose by the middle of March and at any rate not later than the first of April.  The rate not alter than the first of April.  The rains should be over then.

Sincerely,
s/W R Hearst
