(Letterhead:  Los Angeles Examiner, Broadway at Eleventh, Metropolitan 4000)

September 16, 1927.

Dear Miss Morgan:

I think the stair towers are not quite right from the outside.  I do not like the big windows into them that correspond to the big windows along the cloister corridors, and I do not like the continuation of the balustrade around them.

It seems to me that we separate the towers into two parts and that we interfere with their effectiveness and that there is no utilitarian reason for doing it.  I would like to do this:

Take out the big windows, put in two small windows, one over the other on each face, lighting the stairs at the proper places; take off the railing, make the towers homogeneous, and if we want to decorate them at all, indicate the staircase on the outside of the tower.

I think this would look well and designate what the towers are-- staircase towers.  Of course this is frequently done and I think it is quaintly effective.

If you approve of this will you kindly have the alterations made before the stonework goes on the upper part of the staircase towers.

I am decidedly in favor of it and I think early designs had the towers that way.  I do not know just how and when and why we departed from this scheme but I would like, with your consent, to return to it.

2.  I was looking at the two circular saints that we intend to put on the facade.  They are quite good.  Do you think above the windows are the best places for them.  Will they show enough there or should they be put in the broader spaces to the sides of those windows and somewhat lower so that they can be better seen.  Do whatever you think best.  I simply mention the matter for your consideration.

3.  I think we should have better fencing and I have taken up with Mr. Rossi the kind of wire fencing we should have.  It is a much closer mesh, much heavier wire and has a good defensive barbed-wire scheme at the top.  I should like all the wire fencing ordered from this time on to be fencing of this character, and if possible I should like the order already in to be changed to fencing of this character.

I think I will eventually put this character of fencing everywhere, taking the old wire off and using it on other less important fences.  It is important to get our wire fencing really effective and make it so it will keep out practically everything that raids the birds as well as the small animals.

Sincerely,

s/ WR Hearst

