[FILE WITH 1/22/24]
206
December 29, 1923.

Mr. William Randolph Hearst,
137 Riverside Drive,
New York, New York.

Dear Mr. Hearst:

I am glad you liked the Venetian balustrade motif
for the new wings as it should help to introduce the central
motif and also tie the Spanish and Italian elements together.
I was counting on using a different balustrade on the side
towards the main terrace -- either repeating the motif of the
gallery balustrade, or making a more simple one yet, if you
think best. Do you like the big decorative device in the cen-
ter of the rear facade? The extra four feet makes some kind
of a decorative treatment necessary as the plain surface over-
powers the Venetian screen otherwise.

OK 
I think so. I dont remember it clearly but must have loved it as I did not oppose it

Would you kindly give your ideas as to the roofing
of the kitchen proper? Do you approve it a gabled roof tiled
as shown? I thought it might make a better combination with f9ﬁ§g¢
the cloister on the other side than a continuation of the
Venetian balustrade would.

yes.
We are getting this information for Miss Morgan

We have nothing to gauge the size, height or extent
of the cloister by except some photographs showing numbered
stones. It would help greatly if we could have a key to the
measurements without unpacking the stones and putting them to-
gether, also to know whether it is a single one side of a
cloister or the two sides of one.

I will make the details for the plainer of the two
consoles you approved.

Mr. Rossi has the esplanade graded and I am going
up to pass on it as soon as the camp opens. It seemed satis-
factory last week except to the south west of the kitchen
where three trees, two in good condition and one scrubby, make
either quite a detour outward necessary to go around all three
or else taking out the center one which happens to be the scrub
with its upper branches rotted off. I do not think it would
be missed as the branches of the other two trees meet over it,
and the esplanade would pass under these branches and between
the two quite good youngish trees.

He could let the one scrub tree be destroyed but perhaps the esplanade might [illegible] the other trees. Would the wide [illegible] [illegible] interesting a [illegible]. A [illegible] of trees [illegible] out the [illegible] [illegible] at the kitchen [illegible] might not be a bad idea. What do you thinkMr. William Randolph Hearst,
December 29, 1923.

Some alternate studies for the interior of the
billiard room are nearly completed, using in one case your
big blue and gold Italian doorway, and in the alternate
treatment twisted columns, as you have such a large collect-
ion of these so far unused.

Yours very truly,
Julia Morgan
JM-deM
 

 

