.,. ,.._-m”
J .,

“1;; +

:g;\

 

February 21, 1923.

Dear Miss Morgan :

I think using the same head motif over doors and
windows of the sitting room of A as in the central ceiling motif,
with small statues (originals plus copies) over the pilasters is
quite satisfactory.

I like the way it looks in the sketch very much.

If we can find old columns for the lobby end of this room-
I would prefer to have old ones.

I like the suggestion of one of the pairs of twisted cola
umns. We have a lot of them, all sizes, some too small and some
perhaps too big, but there ought to be some that would fit.

I will send some photographs and dimensions of columns
available in the different antique shops of New York. Perhaps
you will find something among them. If we do not find anything
satisfactory, of course we can reproduce those under the big beam.

‘That would be quite expensive, however, and of course they
would never have quite the interest of old columns. Nevertheless
for the sake of harmony it would be better to do this than to have
something that does not accord with the general scheme of decorations.'

- 2. I prefer the double grill doors for B rather than
the single one, merely because we have double wooden doors already
installed. - '

a; a I like the basin for the bathrooms of A that is made
by Crane & Co. and I think such basins with gold-plated legs and
fittings would be extremely good. I do not remember exactly what~
the others look like but I do not suppose that they were any better
than the Ye803 of which you enclose photographs.

The shower doors are perfectly all right too. I suppose
the vented ones are the better.

I 4. I see no objection.to the frieze for Mrs. Hearst‘s room
of which you forward design, and I leave that matter'to your judge
ment entirelys Proceed with this design if you think best and use
the other less satisfactory frieze for one of the small rooms if
you desire. -

That answers I think all the questions in your letters.
I would like to any in addition that when we are re-doing the roofs
I would like to have iron girders or braces or whatever you call
those things, put in in the place of wooden ones. These will supu
port the roofs better, which is desirable on account of the concrete
we purpose putting in them, and they will also be fireproof-— which is
important. '

Hits Julia. Ingmar-3 If   ., 

' . - I 1. 13;..- y'w will :n'nt to Lemar tho‘ iion quickly; In 
to 1m. .1tnroudy far the reef 6mg“ during the dry math”.

I “pact to leave m'sm Francisco an Swahili-1a 5th.

. - Bihbcrolyg

v» .u;~-;~« 3—1-3“: I

““W: «xx . , «7155‘ "‘92:;

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

