1923 Sept 15

Dear Miss Morgan:

It was Mr. Gillespie's original intention to carry the fence down the hill in front of house A. - a little further to the East than where it now stands, and then further to the South below the big rock and then across on that lower line.  He showed me the places which had been lined out for it.  I think this is a better place for the fence in every way because - first it goes down to the East of a ridge and is not seen from A and will not be too near the proposed bathing house and second it goes across below the big rock and some trees and 
is not seen in that westerly direction from any of the houses - third it leaves the ridges in front of house C clear for orchard planting as you want them over as far as the present wood gate.

I think this change in the fence should be made.   Also I think there should be plenty of fence gates so that there is no trouble to get through the fence at a number of points.  I think the fence gates should have concrete or wood beams under them so that they would shut tight and close and not offer opportunity for the "varmints" to go through.  Can this change be made now -  before December so Mr. Keep can plant?  Sincerely ,
s/WR Hearst
2.  We agreed I think that the entrance road gate should be moved from where it is and put at the trough below the hill - which we might call Oak Knoll because of the clumps of oaks the road passes through on the top.

There should be tree planting at that entrance spot around the spring and the trough and the gate should be slightly architectural I think.  Then the fence which runs North of the orchard should go far enough East to include lone tree hill and should then go South to the proposed gate at the trough while the fence pictures up on the other side of the trough gate would 
go East until it met the present fence. 

This can be done this Fall if you like or it can be postponed until Spring.  There is not great hurry about moving the gate - still I think the sooner it is done the sooner we will be able to finish the orchards and decorative planting above the trough gate in what will (?) the immediate enclosure.

3.  I am not discussing the larger or outer enclosure which can be done next summer and I think should be postponed until then I would like a hay shed for the elk and buffalo however.

4.  Mrs. Hearst is very anxious to have the little town of executive's cottages moved off to a considerable distance from our residence hill.  She thinks this will be much better for them as well as for us.  There will be a half dozen cottages and in time probably more.  There will be families and children and it will be distressing to have to put any limits on the activities of the children etcetera yet it may be inconvenient if we don't.

I think it is better to have this executive village at a distance where they can all 
4.  Mrs. Hearst is very anxious to have the little town of executive's cottages moved off to a considerable distance from our residence hill.  She thinks this will be much better for them as well as for us.  There will be a half dozen cottages and in time probably more.  There will be families and children and it will be distressing to have to put any limits on the activities of the children etcetera yet it may be inconvenient if we don't.

I think it is better to have this executive village at a distance where they can all 
do as they please without the possibility of disturbing anybody.  I suggest therefore that you put them at the foot of reservoir hill on the slopes to the North or Northeast of the hill overlooking the dairy farm.

There is lots of room there the cottages would not have to be too close together Each one could have it garden etcetera.  Locations for more cottages if needed could easily be found.  The folks could have conveniences including their own swimming pool.  Will you please make sketches on that basis.
5.  I would like the orad as surveyed by Mr.Parsons and be made as soon as convenient however the best time to make the road, whenever that is, is soon enough.

6.  The galvanized pipe 6 in 5 in and 4 in from the reservoir to the residence hill should be put in at earliest convenience.  Perhaps the executives cottages and the farm should be considered in this connection.

The pipe from the big spring also galvanized and large - rather too large - can go in later.  

Will you kindly send sketches for farm (?)

Very Sincerely 
s/WR Hearst

7 and P.S.

In planting the dwarf trees on Chinese hill and with the various fruits near the houses I hope Mr. Keep will not run too much to apples and such more or less ordinary things but will give us fine cherries peaches plums apricots nectarines and of course the various oranges mandarin etcetera.

We will probably spend longer and longer periods on the hill as the construction nears completion - I hope from April until Christmas so it will not be desirable to plant fruits only for the midsummer.  We want a year round supply.

Sincerely,
s/WRH
