 

 

MarCh  

Dear Miss Morgan :

I

. Of the various designs for the English house, I
like best No. 3, because it takes most account of the View..
' To my mind, the view is the important thing_on the hilla- that is
the_reason we come to the hill-- and all our houses should be aimed
at the view; that is, constructed so as to get the best view_
'fronéthe windows. ‘

I would modify 3 very materially, however, putting a
dining room where you now have the buttery and kitchen, and perhaps
a billiard room where you now have the billiard room in 4. —

Then the buttery and kitchen could be an extension beyond
the diningrobm and below, or rather beyond,the tree marked 2.
There would.te roonathere for various out—buildings, including kitchag
servants diningroom, and servantsirooms if you wish.

  

I have sketched on ths.hig plan an idea for a house which 13-};
more set and severe, and a little more like the mannercd’house we ‘”5
have built in other places. I.do not know that the scale is just
right,a~ I am afraid it is a little large,- but the idea is there.

I would have an entrance hall as marked, with a fireplace.
in the back and a stair treatment somewhat like the Hacienda, with
the stairs going up behind the fireplace to the hall above; on each
side of the entrance hall, parlors or bedrooms.

' In the rear would be the dining room, which is the great
hallea eighteen or twenty feet high. There would be big wind0ws
at each end or fireplaces at each end-~ just as you thought bestaa
in which case the windows would be at each side of the fireplaces
and there would also be windows in the rear.

‘ The pantry, kitchen and other servants‘ rooms are
marked.

That is all there is to that suggestion,eaxcept that
the staircase would go up fron the second floor hall another halfw
length to get to the rooms over the banqueting hall, which would -;9
be of course six or eight feet higher than the rooms over the entrance,[§%
hall, I think it would work out practically. ‘-

 

Mrs. Hearst suggests a billiard room and if we put.in a
billiard room it should go where I now have servants‘ rooms marked.
The servants‘ rooms and cut-houses could then go adjoining the
kitchen to the east. They would be well out of the way.

pan. '

. Mrs. Hearst, being a good wife, likes my plan better, So
perha s on would better see what you can do in t e way of develop-
ng ' ~ - b - , , . .

 

 

 

 

Miss Julia Morganan2- * t ‘5 ‘ h I ‘3Ql5‘23ft‘g t”,

\k ;

Mrs. Hearst thinks that this would make a great house ._5J%%;'
for the boys when we are all at the hill in summer, and of course‘it ;4

would make a fine house for the whole family any time that we‘
do-not want to open up all the other houses. . ' -

  

it

I think the gables would work Gut well front and
‘back, putting them over the bedrooms. The part of the house over
the great hall being higher than that over the front section
might make an interesting architectural effect. You will.know
best about that. - .» . - _ " ‘

' SincerelY'yours,

 

P—S In my plan there would be six-bedrooms-- two on
the ground floor as marked on either.side of the entrance
.hall, two over these, and two over the banqueting hall.

 

 

#1:?“ ; v
. 1.’-~-t'ov;~.
b

     

r.

I

 

I" v
, I»; (3.: _..

   

. v r d  'xa-r:¢,,x«:.h 
,vm’ wwwayyl‘in;d' _ .fﬁ’Nij-N

       
  
    
     

ﬂ, 

.i-  . J'a'wxrwf"; '

 
 

.. , ,
" ' 3' V y“:-  . 4;;
7'4, .190? V natﬁpnﬁwmmuﬁywbé; ‘ I a V A 
h *- J‘ . ‘ » .J ' .‘.’3‘-’/;g"""*ff " "’ “
aquwﬂiu ﬁl’flg‘ﬂ ;,: “my:

         

  

 

