September 20th, 1922

Miss Julia Morgan,
Merchants Exchange Place,
San Francisco, Cal.

My dear Miss Morgan:

Mrs. Hearst has come to feel the way I do about the bathrooms - namely that each bedroom should have a bathroom of its own.  It is possible to secure this by dividing the present bathrooms into two.  This plan necessitates the removal of the bath tubs and the use of showers only in each bathroom.  Probably this is the best plan; at least it is the simplest, but it does not make a very satisfactory bathroom.

I have another plan to suggest - namely that we build additional bathrooms, and taking House "B" for distance, at the West of Mrs. Hearst's bedroom - in fact directly west of the bed is a window.  This window can be changed into a door which would enter into a new bathroom to be constructed outside of the building and to be a practically a lateral extension.  The outside wall would be even with the outside wall of the present bathroom, and a new roof would simply give the appearance of very much larger towers than we now have.  I am enclosing a sketch.

I think the same think could be done with House "C".  I do not say, however, that anything of this kind could be done with House "A", but perhaps you will be able to figure out something for House "A".  I would not advise dividing the bathrooms of House "A" into two as they are quite small enough.  Moreover, this being a family house the desirability of individual bathrooms is not so urgent; in fact the small bedrooms towards the court need not be used as bedrooms when we have plenty of other rooms in other buildings.  They can be sued as little dressing rooms or studies, and with such arrangement there would be no necessity for any changes in the bathroom arrangement tin House "A".  I will, however, you would plan to build additional bathrooms in House "B" and House "C" if this is in any way possible.

                                                    FIGURE 2

Mrs. Hearst says that the driving of automobiles around the terrace road is going to spoil the big inner court as a living court.  It is not merely going to be 
unpleasant to have automobiles run around this paved road, but it will be additionally unpleasant to have the grease and dirt stains which automobiles leave.  This she thinks will soon make the road dirty and disagreeable.  I believe she is exactly right.

the question then arises - where we are to turn automobiles, and how we are t construct a place for turning them.  I think the best place to have the turn is just before you reach the broad steps leading up t the terrace in front of the big house.  I do not mean to turn in the space in front of the house, but to have a circle made on the road just before you reach that space.  The automobiles would then not invade either the terrace road or the space in front of the broad steps, but would turn to a position at right angles to the broad steps and unload into a space between the door steps and the well terrace.  the same arrangements should be made on the other side - namely at the "C" side, and perhaps further down towards the kitchen another circle cold be put in so that delivery wagons would not have to come anywhere near the front part of the house.  In case this is not quite clear from description, I am enclosing a sketch of this also.

                                                   FIGURE 3

We have already agreed by correspondence, I think, that every new bedroom built either in the big house or in other houses, is to have its individual bathroom, so please make plans accordingly.

                                                     FIGURE 4

Mrs. Hearst also thinks that the two little towers that we planned to terminate the walls at each side of the trees in front of the rose garden are not attractive.   She says they look sort of like sentry boxes and will not harmonize with the temple, and do not look well anyhow.  Doubtless she is right - she is a pretty good judge of such matters.  Since e  have a temple, we might terminate the wall with pedestals and statues, and then break the wall back through the trees where it will not be seen to keep out the deer.  If this is not satisfactory we can terminate the walls with something that would recall the temple.
Will you kindly send sketches for all of these things:-

The additional bathrooms;
The circle for the automobiles;
For the plan of the wall terminals just alluded to.

This is practically all Mrs Hearst has to say to date.  She is afraid, however, that there is too much planting in the inner courts and in the big inner plaza and that the growth of trees there will soon obscure the pretty vistas of the houses.  If this is so, we will have to remove the trees.  She says also that she thinks the orchard stretching from in front of House "C" down to meet the orchards further down the road has not yet been planted.  When will that be planted?  She does not think that the conifers at the reservoir have yet been planted, but perhaps  it is not time to plant them.  February is perhaps the best month to plant these.  However, please bear in mind the various schemes of orchard planting and grove planting that I outlined in a previous letter, and kindly carry them out with out my being there.  I am sure the would be in the main correct.  I will e out in November and very anxious to see what has been done.  I believe everything will be finished by that time except the big house.  

Sincerely,
W.R.Hearst

P.S. - I am very anxious to have the house sufficiently finished to be used next summer.  Please rush ahead with it as quickly as possible, and in addition please order everything that we are going to need for the finishing of the inside and outside - tiles,  piping, plumbing, electric wiring, etc., including the window frames and all such items now, so that they will be there on or before it is time to put them in and so we will not have to wait for anything.  They can be sued as soon as the construction advances sufficiently to enable them to be used.  Kindly write me than can be ordered now so as to be ready on time and avoid delay, and can we have the houses ready by next May.
W.R.H.
