February 1, 1923.
Mr. William Randolph Hearst, 137 Riverside Drive,
New York, New York.
Dear Mr. Hearst:
As soon as the roads are usable for the machines, Mr. Clark has arranged for me to go down with Mr. Mehony and show him the work.
I had not understood from your letter that the change was to be more than one of local superintendence, but as I understand Mr. Clark, I am to be relieved of all except strictly architectural service -- Mahony Pros. to do all the work we have done up to now except providing plans and specifications and giving a reasonable a-mount of time to interpreting these. In many ways this will be a relief, as no one but myself knows the time and attention it has taken to round out and bring together the various physical and personal elements -- the pleasure and interest in the work being chief recompense -- our commission of 8 1/2% not yielding a profit of more than 1 1/2% over actual costs to us, not in itself a very paying proposition.
I do not now see just how the new scheme will work out. The buildings proper have always been a compara-tively simple matter -- it is the special work from the time the frame is up, on, that is difficult to handle. If it is not just right your Viollet-le-Duc eye is not satisfied, and to do the work to meet your approval (and mine incidentally) requires artists' work and the handl-ing of more or less temperamental people. If these people are chosen by some one else, or if chosen by you, or my-self, and are under the direction of a general contract-or, -- there is every chance for friction and misunder-standing. That is why I told Mr. Clark it would be nec-essary to make very clear the various responsibilities. 
We have up to now, taken care of, in addition to our usual work and the large amount of decorative work required, the general ordering or buying and shipping, the ware-house checking of antiques, measuring and re-shipping of these garden and furnishing as needed, bookkeeping, etc.
Please do not think I am not willing to fit in with your new plans or to resign, if you prefer, entirely.
Thanking you always for the pleasure the work has been to me,
Yours very truly,
JM-deM 