Dear Miss Morgan:

I sent you a telegram about the fireplaces.  That man may have stopped some from smoking 
but he has made some smoke which never smoked before.  He is very opinionated and obstinate. 
 I dont want him down again unless he will be less obstinate and take suggestions.  
 His main fault is to make the flues too small.  
The fireplace in my room now smokes so that we positively cannot use it.  
It smokes slightly but persistently and in a short time the room smells smokey 
and your eyes smart and you have to put out the fire

The man will argue that it doesnt smoke but the fireplace has the best of the 
argument
The fireplace in the East room smokes in the same insidious  way and the only 
correctionis to widen the flue.  

The sooner we do this the less expensive it will be.

2.  After we have finished the duplex bed rooms I would like to finish the Music room.  
Then we will have the whole ground floor practically completed.  Then we  can begin on 
the rooms over the music room.

3.  I would like to finish the indoor pool by the first of December.  It will be too cold 
to go in the outside pool by that time and the indoor pool 
 would be delightful.  

4.  I would like to finish the South esplanade fountain immediately and have that done.

5.  When we have concrete work to do I would like to extend the west terrace most of these things 
are finishing jobs and should not take so very much time or money.

6.  There are some little things.  The men request more and better shaving mirrors.  If you 
will tell me what kind you think the best I will get
them.

At St Donats we have a movable mirror on each side of the windows so that it is easy to shave 
either side of the face in perfect light

The women want more hooks - especially some in the bath rooms.  There may be other conveniences 
required

 I would like to make all the rooms livable as livable and homelike as possible.  Perhaps if 
 they were entirely homelike the might not be so livable.

Sincerely

s/ WR Hearst
