Office of the Park Commissioners, San Francisco, California, Zoological Department

September 30, 1932

Mr. J. R. Nourse,
c/o The Examiner
San Francisco, California

Dear Mr. Nourse:

[Handwritten:  Seperate canal system not practical why not have Buffalo and elk and 
zebras and Gnus and Springbock and Blesbok  However, these might be divided into two 
large canals if necessary.]

You asked me to go to Mr. Hearst's ranch at San Simeon and look over the animals there. 
 I arrived at the ranch early yesterday morning, went through the entire collection, 
 examined quarters and stock, and enquired about feeding and care that had been given.

The situation, in my opinion, is quite deplorable.  Mr. Hearst has a collection of 
rare and valuable animals, and certainly they should be given proper attention to 
keep them healthy and in good condition.

There has been no regular cleaning or sanitation of the corrals or cages, and as a 
result the stock is sickly and ailing because of germs and disease.  I understand 
that the Superintendent of the ranch is not interested in the care of wild animals, and 
that there are only three men taking care of the whole group of stock.  The grounds are
 dry and the vegetation int he corrals exceedingly poor.  All the animals have been 
 watered at the same trough, which has not been cleaned or disinfected for some time.  
 The feeding of the collection has been ignored and evidently no attention give to what 
 should be fed the various species of animals and birds.

I am suggesting various changes which must be made in order to keep the stock in 
condition and free from disease.

The Buffaloes, now in a field together with the Elk and Zebras, should be departed 
from the other species and kept by themselves.  These animals are at present badly 
fly-bitten and raw; something must be done for this condition, or the animals will die 
form the germs and destruction of skin; sheep-dip, animal-spray, or tar are excellent 
to keep the flies off the animals and give their hides a chance of improving.
2-

The Elk should be kept in a separate corral.

The Zebras should be kept in a corral with the Brindled and White-tailed Gnu, the 
Springbok and Blesbok; these animals go in herds together in their native land, 
and so would do well together in captivity.

The Giant Elands will have to be given special care.  These animals should be 
moved immediately to the location where the Giraffes used to be, and should be 
put together with the Beisa Oryx, and the White Oryx.

The Waterbok should be kept in a corral by themselves,s and not mixed with other 
stock.

The Bison seem to be all right, and can be put anywhere on the ranch.

The Axis and Sambar Deer can also be placed anywhere on the place.

The Ibex and Barbary Sheep are all right where they are now.

The Elephant should have a large enclosure with a pool in which she can bathe. 
Yes.

The Water Buffalo can be put  anywhere on the ranch; it would be best that these 
animals be kept by themselves.

The two Chimpanzees should be kept together in one big cage, and be given some 
apparatus, swings, etc., with which to amuse themselves; these intelligent apes 
must be made as contented as possible in captivity. Yes.

There are a great many bears at the ranch, and these animals should be moved from where 
they are at present to a bear-pit.  Yes.


The arena where the Lions, Panthers, other cats, and Bears are kept is in poor condition: 
the animals are tearing up the floor, and I am afraid that soon they will have destroyed
 enough of the wood to enable them to escape.  Yes.
If Mr. Hearst wants to keep them where they are, he should have the inside of the 
cages repaired with iron-wood, and logs placed in each compartment so the animals 
can sharpen their claws on these instead of tearing up the building.  All the iron 
bars, which at present are being destroyed by corrosion, should be scraped and painted 
before they rot to such an extent that it would be possible for the animals to break 
them.  Yes.
3-

The Polar Bears do not look well; they need a big pool in which to dive and swim.  
The place where they are now is not suitable for them: the pit would do well for lions,
 but never for Polar-Bears.  
 OK Build new places for bears. Use present ones for lions

The Rheas, Cassowaries, and Emus can be kept together in one enclosure.

It will be necessary that the Kangaroo infected with an incurable and infectious 
jaw disease, be killed.  There is now way of curing this trouble, and unless the animal 
is killed the germ will spread and cause further loss among the stock. 
 Kill it

Each corral should be equipped with a water-trough, cleaned and disinfected daily, 
and should have a shelter constructed where the stock can be kept at night and fed 
during the day. 
OK
  Hay-racks should be installed in each shelter so 
the food can be kept off the floor and not trampled underfoot by the animals.  The 
corrals and shelters should be thoroughly cleaned daily, the sweepings and spores 
BURNED each day; by letting the spores lie about, thinly covered by hay, the germs 
breed rapidly and infect the whole herd which, you will realize, is a very dangerous 
situation.  
OK

A small hospital for sick animals is necessary so that the stock can be moved to this 
place for care; this will not only facilitate the recuperation of the individual 
animal, but will lessen the danger of the spread of any infectious disease to the 
rest of the  species or to the entire collection.   
OK

A store-room should be built, equipped with frigidaire, in which to keep the 
food-supplies; there should also be a kitchen where the keepers may prepare the 
food for the various animals.
OK

Feeding Instructions

CATS: Chopped garlic added to the meat once a week, and once a week they should be 
given cod-liver oil with the meat.  One day a week they should not be given any meat, 
but fed milk and eggs only (about a quart to each animal).  Santonin capsules placed 
on a piece of liver and given once a month will eliminate the danger of loss by round 
worms.

POLAR BEARS:  Boiled carrots, onions, and sweet-potatoes, and boiled fish (4# to 
each animal) should be given three times a week; one day they are fed raw fish, and 
one day raw meat; one day a week they are given plain break soaked with cod-liver oil.4-

OTHER BEARS: Once a week these animals are given meat, cooked with vegetables and 
chopped finely; the other days they are given all kinds of vegetables and fruits 
and bread.  Twice a week they can be given cooked rice-and-raisins, to which a 
little sugar is added.  Once a week they should be given co-liver oil on the bread.

BUFFALO:  Twice a week they should be given oats and alfalfa-hay, and once a week 
cod-liver oil mixed with bran.  The rest of the week they can be given alfalfa-hay.

BISON: Alfalfa hay daily, with a dose of cod-liver oil if they are sick. These animals 
should be fed inside the shelter at all times.

OTHER HOOFED ANIMALS:  Alfalfa hay daily, twice a week oats should be given, once a 
week chopped lettuce, carrots, and cabbage, and once a week bran dampened with 
cod-liver oil.

All Hoofed Animals should have a salt-and-sulphur like in each corral.

CHIMPANZEES:  Cooked food daily -- rice cooked with raisins, all kinds of cooked 
vegetables and fruits, raw or cooked. Raisin bread, brown bread; in the mornings 
they should be given hot coffee and milk, and twice a week warm milk and eggs.

ELEPHANT:  Should be given onions and bread once a week, and once a week lettuce and 
cabbage.  Every two weeks the Elephant's skin should be oiled.

OSTRICH, EMU, CASSOWARY, etc.:  Onions, lettuce, chopped vegetables, carrots, etc., 
three times a week; chopped bread and co-liver oil once a week.  The rest of the week 
they should be given Oats.

These suggestions for the care of the stock are, I firmly believe, absolutely necessary 
if the animals and birds are to be kept in good condition.  This is my opinion, and I 
believe it would be supported by any Zoological expert whom you might call in for 
suggestions. 
Yes OK

I understand from Mr. Baldwin that there are at present only three men caring for 
the stock on the ranch; it is impossible for three men to care for the entire collection
 as it should be cared for, and do all the work that involves.  You will have to have at
  least three more men for this purpose. 
  OK 6 men and a man in charge.

Very truly yours,

George Bistany 

George Bistany

cc Mr. Hearst
Mr. Fleishhadker
