Office of William Randolph Hearst, La Cuesta Encantada, San Simeon, California

Dec. 16, 1930.

Dear Miss Morgan:

I have talked with Mr. Rossi.  He is going on his vacation the first of next week and 
will be gone for six weeks.

I think we can afford to keep him on salary during that period.  It is not very long.  
He suggests say a half salary, but if you do not object I see no reason for not giving 
him full salary.

2.  Mr. Rossi thinks, and argues pretty convincingly, fortified by rain statistics, 
that if we do not begin work in part of least before February first, we will not get 
much of this winter's rain.

I believe that we should begin earlier.  I said to you the other day that we will 
begin on January first, but you said that you would like Mr. Rossi to take his vacation.
  It think we can begin on January first even if Mr. Rossi is away on his vacation.

I would like to keep Mr. Van Gordon on salary and I think if we plan out a certain 
amount of work which will merely consist of shovel excavations and the transportation 
to the Hill of sand and gravel, etc., that we can accomplish most of the excavation and
 most of the transportation of material before February first; so that on February first
  or thereabouts we can begin the actual concrete work under Mr. Rossi's supervision.

I would really like to do this because I want to make sure of this winter's water 
in the reservoir.

I feel in this way that we could probably get the reservoir ready by the end of 
February, and we could not possibly do it any other way.

If we got the reservoir ready by the end of February, we would miss February we would 
miss February's rains, of course, but we would get the rains in March and April.

March has considerable rain as a rule; April not very much.

We could not hop for a full reservoir by any means, even at that date.  But if we were 
a month later, we could not hope for enough water of any practical value at all.

I feel that we will especially need water during the summer season and I would like 
consequently to begin work on January first in the manner I have described.Miss Morgan--2.								Dec. 16, 1930.

There are one or two other things which seem pressing.

First, the animal protection.  I understand that the material is here to build those 
animal shelters, and that the animal shelters can be built, apart form the material, 
for twelve or fifteen hundred dollars apiece.

I believe we could build three of them if we went to work immediately after the holidays.

In fact, we might start one of them almost immediately.

I urge this because if we lose a few valuable animals, it will cost us more than the 
shelters would cost, and we would still have to put up the shelters later.

If we put them up now, they will cost no more than later, and they will save the 
valuable animals.

Mr. Baldwin feels greatly the need of these  shelters, and I feel that if we are going 
to erect them we might as well do so now in time for them to do good.

Those are the two important items.

There is in addition the question of finishing the lion grotto.

As long as we have gone so far with it I think I would like to finish it,-- first, 
to get the advantage of its use and second, to see how these grottoes work out in 
practical operation.

Before going ahead with this, however, I would like to know how much the cost would be.

To sum up,-- I am open-minded about finishing the lion grotto; but I feel rather 
definitely that we should begin work on the reservoir and on the animal shelters as 
soon as possible.

Sincerely,

s/ WR Hearst
