(Letterhead: Los Angeles Examiner, Office of the Publisher, Broadway at Eleventh St., Los Angeles)

February 25, 1927.

Dear Miss Morgan:

I do not expect to be back at the ranch for three or four weeks.  I think I will wait this time for settled good weather, which ought to occur along about the middle of March or the first of April.

It will be quite safe, therefore, for you to take down the velvet in the sitting room of House A.  It is possible that the velvet I bought will not match up with the old velvet in the room, in which case we can leave the room as it is and use the old velvet lately arrived for some other purpose, trusting to be able to find the right color for old velvet later.

The velvet I bought is, I think, a very fine lot and we can use it in one of the new houses if not in A.

2.  I do not think we need any bird cages now except for such birds as we actually have.  In other words, I see no reason for buying any new birds to fill new bird cages.  Later we may want to do this but not now.

3.  As soon as you have the model of the colonnade finally worked out I would greatly like to see it.  Suppose you send it down to me here.  As soon as this matter is decided and the details of the columns are drawn out, we can send the drawings abroad and get them started making the columns, etc.

I would like to get them started early as it is going to take a long time to get these columns.

4.  If you will tell Mr. Rossi exactly what size and type of columns you want for the four columns which are to be used for the two features of the upper esplanade, he can probably send same to his people in Italy to get them.  If they are shipped immediately they should be here in time for the summer.

5.  I am jumping about a little-- and I am now back to the colonnade.  When making the model of the colonnade, why not make a supplementary model of the new terrace.  I would take out the wall now running in front of House C over to the pool altogether, dig deeper, so the new wall would be higher.  Then put in a much more decorative wall with a fine staircase in front of House C, going down to the new terrace level.
Miss Morgan--2.
Feb. 25, 1927.

I think the new terrace should be about fifty feet wide and be supported of course by another wall.

I will send you some suggestions for decorative features for the walls.

I advocate making the model include this terrace, because I think this terrace is important in connection with the colonnade and the building of the new wall.

A model would show us just how it is going to look and just what ought to be done to get the utmost effect.

Sincerely,

s/ WR Hearst
